[Music]
good evening tonight the football world
was stunned by the shock news that after
only seven weeks in the job Brian Clough
has been sacked as manager of Leeds
United it's been claimed that the
footballers passed a vote of no
confidence in him and certainly today
the board took the shocked decision that
Clough must go tonight on this live
calendar special we're talking not only
to Brian Clough himself but also to the
man that he succeeded as manager of
Britain's most successful football team
to Don Revie the England manager the
Brian Clough first of all Brian what's
your reaction to being booted out in
this fashion oh it's very sad reaction
obviously to be sacked as you profoundly
put it and the only way you could put it
it's very sad one but he said one for me
personally and he also believed a very
sad month from Leeds Football Club's
angle and from the Leeds City do you
feel that you were given a chance in the
job well 7 weeks is hardly a long time
to be given the chance in any job I
would hope that mr. Revie would get a
lot longer time in his job well you
began with very high hopes we talked on
a program here only a few weeks back
when did you first realize that it
wasn't gonna work out oh I didn't
realize it at all I was always convinced
right up until tonight that it was going
to work out it was inevitable to replace
the best manager on record or by record
in the Football League then obviously
Leeds had to get somebody that was you
know slightly special I don't want to be
blase a conceited but I'm not sure who
they could have got to improved on his
record you were the best man for the job
you thought I believed that was and
obviously the Leeds board did well why
didn't it work out what was the main
single thing that went wrong results in
seven weeks you know there are not there
is not a lot of time to become
established when you've taken over a job
of a man that's been there 10 15 years
and he's been regarded as the kingpin is
the father figure as the man that made
everything tick there within seven weeks
it is impossible otally impossible
replace that type of thing if the
results had gone a bit better then
obviously it would have been easier but
due to circumstances due to the fact
there were inherited suspensions and
little billy was sent off and banned for
a long time and Paul made his injury and
that type of thing you know the results
weren't as good as should have been ok
well let's turn to Don Revie do you
consider that you weren't it was in fact
possible to step into your shoes to
replace you been very very honest I
think it would be very difficult job for
anybody to do but I do feel that that
the pleasantly delighted the won the
championship last year to possibly go on
and do things this year was Brian Clough
the man that you would have known let us
assume Austin Austin don't start jumping
the gun you asked me a question I'm
going to answer it I think the players
were there to do the job
now whether after six matches they're
gonna be judged on six matches I don't
know but all I can say is I was with
these players most of them for 10 11
years I was monday or 13 enough and I
basically think that they're good enough
to win it all for this season last
season had an awful lot of injuries and
suspensions and would play without four
and five and six players right from the
very first match I knew the place cloth
but he calls me Ravi didn't know them
and I knew out to handle them and I'll
juggle them about and he didn't have
time to do that but the players are
there and the dedicated professionals
and I had not trouble them for 13 half
years well in saying that the team was
good enough you know making an implied
criticism of Brian Clough do you think
Brian Clough was the man for the job
that is entirely tonight his direct his
opinion what's your personal opinion my
personal opinion is I stated at the time
before Brian took the job
I won't call him Clough first I wouldn't
do take him down like that because I
think it's a sad night for anybody at
the Sakata manager in any football in
any any job nobody likes to see their
something football at all I openly
stated before anybody took the job when
I took the ninja
but I thought the journey to I was the
man for the job only because I knew our
system they knew I worked and you other
stuff works and you other players
reacting to things I knew everything
because she traveled all over Europe
with us he played him matches a grip the
great things of the game and I
recommended him delayed because if I can
talk that does that mean that he was
going to carry on in the Revit tradition
that he was going to be a manager much
as you Bea know I felt double-chocolate
would feel that because they're
technically Neal but they he was an
interview for the last two or three for
the job had taught them though I've
never talked to Bill Nick about him but
Johnny Jones our fault he's proved it
with error he went to Brazil with them
and did well and fed and South America
aged in well with their a team I only
passed a personal opinion whether least
nowadays one of the take it or not it
was entirely up to the charities I can
only recommend him for the job didn't
take him they went for Brian so I can't
any more than that well what an effect I
read in that is that you weren't the
right man to step into this legacy that
Dom no no you were totally out of order
there well you would take out of that
he's totally untrue what I said that I
recommended jointed you asked for the
job before anybody else was recommend it
all before anybody name was mentioned
I recommended joining G alpha Legion his
job well apart from your own respect for
your own authorities Brian Clough what
you said you were the right man to step
into the kind of legacy don't leave it
left that's a very difficult question
he's like saying you know if religion
goes out of out of our way of life who
takes orders it's like your style is
very different from his style my
suppliers used to Don Riva style it
might have been upsetting my stars not
different at all in the sense that I
wanted success and I believed I could
deliver it and my methods 99 percent or
90 percent the same as mr. revs my style
was exactly the same management is 90
percent right throughout the country
irrespective who the manager is it's the
extra ten to ten percent it's a special
bit but look over the years least United
have been run almost like a family like
sons of Don of Don Revie now didn't you
in fact go in and upset them unsettled
them by going in for a big buying policy
well a big vine policy I'm not sure what
I did was I bought a wing half to
replace Eddie gray who there's grave
doubts about his few
I was informed when I took over Leeds
that Mick Jones could possibly not be
fit for the rest of the season at the
very earliest February or March
so I bought a reserve center forward in
John O'Hare and all of Leeds know he's a
very talented player
now what I also did was I tried to
provide a little bit of striking power
added to Leeds machine as I once called
Don's team he wasn't very happy with it
but it was a machine superbly machine
and it superbly oiled one but it was a
machine and I handed Duncan McKenzie to
hit because I knew upfront we were a
little bit thin with Peter Lorimer Joe
Jordan and Alan Clark so the fact of big
buying wasn't big buying in the society
it was unsettling for the players oh it
could have been slightly up settling
because they've been there so long and
one or two of them are getting on to 32
33 possibly even 34 okay well don't
maybe what you've got have gone in for
this kind of buying or what do you have
worked it in more cautiously
well first of all let me answer Brian's
question in about them getting old and
about injuries and one thing another as
I said already we had this all last
season but what you must remember is
this that that team was written off by
the press on television in 71 with three
chapter three tournaments in 71 in 72
and 73 when we lost against someone an
ST Milan they all said that's it they
finished that over the older two all and
they stand the other and last season
with all these injuries and all these
suspensions to Alan Clark and Norman and
all these people we only lost four
matches of the 42 on the championship
and there weren't 29 matches from the
wind of season undefeated are you saying
that that Brian Clough Hawaii was not
necessary no Boston but if you're not
pleased
edible well it is a managed thing okay
let him finish
right yes now then if Brian felt after
three months how would he give them
personal three months to settle down and
play as the cabling done even with
Billy's eight make much suspension yes
but tell your ophthalmic bitch said of a
Georgian avid Frankie gray he had full
very world-class players there in the
making no well I juggled about last year
Frankie gray whether you think Frankie
did to go play another well class she
said yeah well I think world class if he
got the chance
Brian I think he could be worthless yes
and I think that I played telly off up
front this what I'm saying you didn't
get the chance to see them I knew them I
played telly off upfront alongside Joe
Jon I played telly dogs midfield uh play
do it fall back I played him it sweeper
I played Macbeth front uh played Frankie
grew up from the outside left know these
players I felt should have had a chance
yes
well didn't the get a chance Terry had
know that he had a tummy bug enteritis I
think the call it and he was out it he
was in bed for ten days yeah but he
still make bits in Georgie on the Frank
Iero who didn't play at all Brian and
the thing is Mick boots yes I'm sorry
Terry off and Frankie great yeah now I
feel that the unsettling part came when
he didn't give these lad the chance and
quite rightly among he's got a standard
for buyers decisions oh yes every town
was gonna buy we're gonna have team
selection where he's gonna know if he's
got a stand the fall by what he says and
what he does and brandy sad to go in the
market whether it was done something to
the players I don't know well the
question that arises was Brian Clough
allowed to stand or fall by his
decisions was he given time to carry
through his policies was he given the
backing that he needed from the team to
do what he wanted I would prefer you to
say the Board of Directors to that
because the team don't dictate that much
the team can have a vote of confidence
or that type of thing the team are the
be all and end or regarding the results
on the field but the regarding the
confidence it's essential to have the
confidence but the men who make the
decisions are directors in football well
let this team first of all that's what
y'all are you sure that team was playing
its best for you oh I'm not sure
with results like that Oh results like
that of course they were playing their
best they couldn't do anything else it
was second nature to them thank you let
me ask you a question all of you who
lived in Leeds five years five years and
I've never seen such a disastrous start
to the season but have you ever seen a
League United ever team ever in the
present team that's doubt and therefore
this season
not try they might have bad towns or
might miss Horton goals but never ever
you accuse or insinuate the only Jenai
his side
never tried if there's never a
playground an up pitch with a white
shirt on that's never tried you might
know but again there won't be certain
goals I may miss to do bad things but
never not tracked okay well I accept
that but there have been claims that
there was in fact a vote of
no-confidence or something amounting to
that passed by the players right correct
that is absolutely correct well how did
you react to that
oh I wanted to be sick no I wanted to be
sick if you had a vote of no-confidence
with the people you work with that way I
would assume you would react exactly the
same I felt sick what was the main
reason for do you think I don't know
what the main reason was I think you
know the fact that I didn't have time to
get to know them and this type of thing
I do believe honestly that whoever the
walked in would have had the same thing
plus the fact that our only other
incidentals went against it ie results
from that type thing which I've already
pointed out and the main thing there was
let's throw at this point of the vote of
no-confidence how do you react to
players in effect passing a vote of no
confidence in the manager after such a
short period honestly feel no lazy night
he plays as long as I've known them they
must have had a very good reason to do
that they'll respect their brain and
must feel and say what I feel about
these new players they must have had a
very good reason to do that why I don't
know I had enough problems of mind with
with England job whatever the reasons do
you condone players acting in that kind
of fashion but the manager's job
impossible no I do not condone players
at all doing that in any club because I
think it's totally wrong and I think
that it is wrong to listen to it but I
can't understand why the legend I will
close if bands to what he said if they
voted a no-confidence vote in you Brian
not exactly a vote but the feeling was
there yes no it's a very strong word but
the feeling was definitely there well
how far was that that kind of feeling
there because in a sense you'd be
critical of Dom relieving himself we had
a program here a few weeks back on which
you were implicitly critical of Don
reviews at the Contra side now is that
the right kind of line to take to a man
stepping into the shoes of a revered
manager and now if you're asking me now
did I make mistakes answer is yes
I am not infallible I definitely made
mistakes having said that when you say
that I criticize Don Revie about
unsigned contracts I stated the fact
that the were when I took over 11
contracts not signed now if it was Don's
fault if is the Chairman's fault if it
was a player's fault
that's the material for this particular
argument there were 11 contracts not
signed that is fact
well don't review saw that program on
the accusation what was your reaction to
it yes in Austin I formed up that late
yes and that's do you a fact that first
brand the following night and I got no
reply talking about the Levin contractor
once signed all contracts were basically
agreed in the minutes with the directors
of what each player was going to get
brownies possibly write the contracts
weren't signed not by 11 I'm clear by
five or six and all these things would
agreed in the minutes that the contacts
were agreed at agreed with players and
all players have signed blank contracts
for me for 13 half years and I've never
had one cup of trouble ever
with one player throughout 13 app years
with contracts and why the weren't
carried out and signed and sent off by
the secretary I will never know
now on that same program Brian said that
there was no warmth in the club now that
really shook me daresay no wall you said
no warmth in Legion I did know that was
the closest thing that any relationship
between players and management staff
have ever done
did I sell know what did a warmth who
told me in them
or no I'm saying the dog warmth in the
club right I don't remember if I did say
it then obviously the warmth that you
generated between you and the players
that can be taken away no that's
ridiculous
never ever can't be taken away well what
do you think was wrong with Brian Clough
approach to Leeds as a manager now
that's asking for me to do something I
know nothing at all about
I've known brand a long time what is
your Proteus is a man gee I've never
played under him I've never worked under
him that is impossible for me to answer
you say you have different styles as
managers and it's generally believed I
don't with what I could see that you
don't get on particularly well now why
is that ranked top well when I was a
manager of Derby County now I was in
direct conflict with Don Revie in his
lead scientists naturally I didn't get
on with him because invariably they were
above us
that's the flippant answer having said
that I believe in a different concept of
football to Don I think I believe that
it can be played it can be played a
slightly different to the way Tom plays
it and get the same results now that may
be that might be you know aiming for
utopia and it might be might mean being
a little bit stupid but that is the way
I am I'm a little bit stupid regarding
this type of thing I'm a little bit of
an idealist I do believe in fairies and
that is my you know outlook now Don
slightly different and his record proves
over results that he perhaps is right
but having said that I want to be like
me
well don't obviously wants to be like
him is this question of style the reason
why the two of you don't get on well I
don't know I think that um truthfully
Brian is a fool of himself very very
honest to you I honestly feel that he's
criticized Matt Busby Bertie me me
personally Norman on to Peter Lorimer
bully brother Peter story he's
criticized so many people in the game
whose records stand to be too busy to be
seen
he criticized so many people this is
east Al if he wants to be that style
fair enough but I think that is totally
totally wrong for the game of
professional football he says about
honesty and things like this but when
you talk about honesty
if honesty is going to destroy it again
then you know all kinds of trouble
during the game I think you're doing the
game a great disservice yes I wish that
you turns to shoot your mouth off so now
when you talk I would have very combat
Memphis rushing first offense he talked
about he talked about winning the
championships better or differently our
record is there to be seen for 11 years
yes right the first four or five years
have all said this we played four
results the last four or five year
we've been the most entertaining inside
by cloud entertainment and topping
charts were national newspapers and
television although also done the
Disciplinary chart the Disciplinary
charts you top that we top that once
well you topped it the last two or three
years no no no no no that's not that's
not so it wasn't under percent right I
will agree sorry there wasn't under
percent right discipline on the field
and last year was trying it out well it
was what you were the top yeah yeah but
when you you see Brian when you talk
about coming to take the lead job and
yet all these things and all these words
about Stephanie marshes and one thing
another haha yes you had but why why did
he come from Brighton to Leeds to take
it or when you criticize them so much
and said we should be in the second
division for this and we should do this
we should do that why do you take the
job
not because I thought it was the best
job in law in the country of course it
was the best job now he's taking over
the league champions
yeah utilities to mute it no the best
point to players that you've ever seen
all of it I didn't know about the
players done he didn't know any I didn't
know them intimately you do but I know
you word the League champions and I was
taking over the league champions I
wanted to have a crack at the European
Cup this year yes I think that was near
and dear to your heart also yes um I
wanted to win it I wanted to do
something you hadn't done now when I
said I think I said it's have a cherry
actually or most of your players he said
to me what can you do the boss hadn't
done you the boss referring to you and I
said I want to win the league but I want
to win it better now there is no other
reply to that question no because you
had one league yeah but there's no way
you can win it better why no no no no
that's got weirder look we don't lost
for much is enough but that well I can
only those three no no no couldn't give
any other answer and I want to do in the
European Cup
I believe well just a fraction Don a
fraction I don't know that's because I'm
not spoken to you but I believe it is a
fraction whether you took the England
job or had another shot at the European
Cup that is totally true cuz I was so
involved with the players and everybody
good luck now I wanted to do that and I
want to do it better than you you can
understand that can't you yes and I
think if you'd said that oh please
you were to go through the message
across I couldn't say that to our
players as you say I couldn't say that
to our place just as a ball statement
you see when I went in there there was
friction there was on flipping while you
mean friction there was unhappiness cost
you've gone an unsigned contract no but
when you walked into a new walked in
tell me when you walked in did you ever
meet him the first day with him no why
because I didn't think it was necessary
to have a meeting
the very first day so you were taking
over as manager of a new club yes and
you don't call all your players and your
coach and stuff and you offer stuff
together
now and introduce yourself and meet them
and tell them exactly what you feel and
what you want to try and do go on the
first day I walked in I came back from
holiday and I did two hours training
with them irrespective what you do I
went out on the field where I am right
you win over the field my immediate
reaction to any job the same of the
Football Association about 70 people
together and where they cocktail party
and introduced myself your way I talked
and yeah but I've talked about Romney's
record I thought oh great runs yours
yes his record as professional man I
never got close to Ramsey he was a cold
man but his writing you are as a cold
man yes Oh your desk Oh Claire's out but
that other love shop to do well that's
you know that's opinion no well that's
opinion but but Alf Ramsey I thought did
a good job and I thought it was
important to me yes to introduce myself
to everybody in the Football Association
you did I thought was you Duty watching
tonight she groaned done everybody
saying more bran coughs arriving today
yes would look but you didn't have a
tray along didn't you wear them no no a
respective training session I think Ryan
v training sessions didn't mean anything
you were first dear why
how could training sessions overcome
meeting everyone in the club he couldn't
attend in ten minutes
take everybody together as a group and
say I'm pleased to meet you I'm pleased
to come on I walked into the dressing
room when shook hands were Billy Bremner
they're very didn't know Brian oh I
don't know Ryan no no no I don't ledge
did why why didn't get everybody
together cuz I didn't think it was
necessary
why because I thought that I would do it
more Suckley and different instead of
having everybody bang bang bang though
we're all on edge
I was on
so you could have put them at ease now I
on how Oh talk to them I took the shirts
off the backs after the finished
training Oh sir that I must as well of
course
well that was my approach of course but
you didn't read every way the first day
I shook hands and said hello met them
everybody
did he got the laundry ladies oh no the
office stone oh I'm sorry did he go
Jones Minh no I didn't have time to do
that dawn it was players towards the end
I want I want to ask what's your
reaction to a board that doesn't back
you up that's sexy off to seven weeks
I'm done time to know them either just
as I believe I'm done time to do the job
what's your god my actions board is very
very mixed and my reaction to the board
is so mixed up I don't believe they've
done Leeds Football Club a service I
don't care whether it's me or whoever it
was I'm talking about a manager I don't
believe they're done footballer service
I think this took a blow to send this
back you know back in the dark ages I
think if the Football Association who
employ mr. Revie sack him if he loses
his first match I think they will set
football back 30 years or 50 years in
turn I believe that these perhaps have
done that a little bit also mani cousins
was under a lot of pressure
he was my chairman if he didn't stand up
to it as much as he should have done
that's a matter of debate but he was
under a lot of pressure and hey today
when the final decision was made and it
was a board decision he then made it
right with me regarding a lot of things
as he made it right for 15 years what's
gonna happen now to Brian Clough all
million things will happen to Brian
Clough I'm gonna have 48 hours or three
days oh I don't know I I think and I'm
please don't think I'm being flippant
having many ambitions in life and one of
the ambitions is and I wanted this when
I was manager leads and manager of Derby
I wanted to coach the England youth I
just might apply to this guy well I'm
gonna be in a very difficult situation
it's after the argument with Darby your
left Brighton
cloud and now this with lead who's gonna
who's gonna touch you with a bargepole
as it were well I think many many people
have touched me the bargeboard because
the whole country now including Leeds
and you've heard it in Don's own mouth
tonight I do not think seven weeks seven
weeks is enough is not enough time to
even find out where the local butcher
shop is okay well what happens to Leeds
United now what you see is being their
future well obviously they are prosper I
hope they'll prosper well despite the
fact they've only been involved with him
seven weeks you've got a hope to prosper
I hope everybody in football prospers I
hope they go on to win the European Cup
don't worry what's your feeling about
Brian coughs personal person you are how
do you feel from for interrupting that I
have to win the European Cup
what's your feeling personally about
Randolph's personal situation when
that's anybody who's been sacked in
football and you feel a little bit sad
for but what the brands gonna vote the
right way and I don't know if it I
wasn't there but if later night your
players about a medium with brine and
the chairman there must mean something
totally wrong okay well gentlemen though
I must leave it after what's been tragic
day for Leeds United supporters of which
are number myself one gentlemen thank
you very much and good night
[Music]